---
aliases:
  - linear code
---
A **linear code** of length $n$ and dimension $k$ is a [[Vector spaces|linear subspace]] $C$ with dimension $k$ of the [[Vector spaces|vector space]] $\mathbb{F}^n_q$ where $\mathbb{F}_q$ is the [[Fields|finite field]] with $q$ elements. In the most extended case where $q = 2$  we call the code binary. The size of a code is the number of codewords and equals $q^k$.

The **weight** of a codeword is the number of its elements that are non-zero.

The **distance** between two codewords is the Hamming distance between them. The Hamming distance between two equal-length strings of symbols is the number of positions at which the corresponding symbols are different. 

The **distance** $d$ of the linear code is the minimum weight of its nonzero codewords, or equivalently, the minimum distance between distinct codewords.

A linera code of length $n$, dimension $k$, and distance $d$ is called an $[n, k, d]$ code.

## Generator and check matrices
As a linear subspace of $\mathbb{F}^n_q$, the entire code $C$ may be represented as the span of a set of $k$ codewords. These basis codewords are often collated in the rows of a matrix $G$ known as the **generator matrix** for the code $C$. When $G$ has the block matrix form $\mathbf{G} = [I_k|P]$ where $I_k$ denotes the $k\times k$ identity matrix and $P$ is some $k\times (n -k)$ matrix, then we say $G$ is in **standard form**.

A matrix $H$ representing a linear function $\phi: \mathbb{F}^n_q \to \mathbb{F}^{n-k}_q$ whose kernel is $C$ is called a **check matrix**. Equivalently, $H$ is a matrix whose null space is $C$. If $C$ is a code with a generating matrix in standard form, $\mathbf{G} = [I_k|P]$, then $\mathbf{H}=[-P^T|I_{n-k}$ is a check matrix for $C$. The code generated by $H$ is called the dual code of $C$.

Linearity guarantees that the minimum Hamming distance $d$ between a codeword $c_0$ and any of the other codewords $c \neq c_0$ is independent of $c_0$. This follows from the property that the differences $c - c_0$ is also a codeword, and the property that $d(c, c_) = d(c-c_0, 0)$. This implies that
$$ 
\min_{c\in C, c\neq c_0} d(c, c_0)= \min_{c\in C, c\neq c_0} d(c-c_0, 0) = d
$$
In other words, in order to find out the minimum distance between the codewords of a linear code, one would only need to look at the non-zero codewords. The non-zero codeword with the smallest weight has then the minimum distance to the zero codeword, and hence determines the minimum distance of the code.

The distance $d$ of a linera code $C$ also equals the minimum number of linearly dependent columns of the check matrix $H$.